# General configuration options
ac_add_options --prefix=/app

ac_add_options --with-pthreads
ac_add_options --disable-crashreporter
ac_add_options --disable-debug
ac_add_options --disable-gconf
ac_add_options --disable-necko-wifi
ac_add_options --disable-tests
ac_add_options --disable-updater

ac_add_options --enable-application=mail
ac_add_options --enable-gio
ac_add_options --enable-install-strip
ac_add_options --enable-official-branding
ac_add_options --enable-optimize
ac_add_options --enable-safe-browsing
ac_add_options --enable-strip
ac_add_options --enable-url-classifier

# Dependencies we took directly from the runtime
ac_add_options --enable-system-ffi
ac_add_options --enable-system-pixman
ac_add_options --with-system-bz2
ac_add_options --with-system-icu
ac_add_options --with-system-jpeg
ac_add_options --with-system-libvpx
ac_add_options --with-system-zlib
